docs(relnote): FF127 - Experimental support for color components in `calc()` (#34042)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/firefox/experimental_features/index.md

  </tbody>
</table>

> ### `calc()` color support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `calc()` color channel support in relative colors
```

Author: See my response to your second comment.
I'll keep "channel". "in relative colors" happens because of the color parsing support in `calc()`, at least that's what my understanding is. So I think we limit the heading to what `calc()` supports and in the description mention that it can also be used in relative cursors as a result of this new enhancement. Let me know if you think differently.

```suggestion
### `calc()` color channel support
```

Reviewer: I think "channel" and "component" are used interchangeably, so I think it's all fine to use what you prefer. Re: 'relative color' I think it might be worth highlighting, what do you reckon?

Author: Yes, relative colors is needed here!

> The CSS [`calc()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/calc) function can now parse color channels, allowing you to dynamically create or adjust colors. [Firefox bug 1889561](https://bugzil.la/1889561).

Reviewer: What do you think about this?

```suggestion
The CSS [`calc()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/calc) function can now parse color channels and components in relative colors, allowing you to correctly calculate changes to colors in different color spaces or using different functional notation. [Firefox bug 1889561](https://bugzil.la/1889561).
```

Author: I had originally added that the `calc()` enhancement is part of the relative color support. :) But after working on the `calc()` reference page, I realized that the core feature is `calc()`'s ability to parse the color channels (as also indicated by the [Firefox bug title](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1889561)). Once `calc()` can parse color channels, it can naturally be used in relative color derivations. So I removed the reference to relative colors. 

After your suggestion, I am inclined to put the reference to relative colors back in, albeit slightly differently. For consistency with the [Using relative colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors) page, I chose to go with "color channels" instead of "components". Also splitting the sentence because it got too long. LMK what you think.

```suggestion
The CSS [`calc()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/calc) function can now parse color channels and be used in the process of creating [relative colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors#using_math_functions). With this enhancement, you can correctly calculate changes to colors in different color spaces or while using different color functional notations. [Firefox bug 1889561](https://bugzil.la/1889561).
```

Reviewer: This is tricky, you could use `calc()` in colors before this change:

```css
background-color: rgb(calc(10 + 10) 100 100)
```

https://codepen.io/bsmth/pen/oNRGEpj

(I guess it [landed here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Firefox/Releases/59#css))

But now, when you use `calc()` like this:

```css
  background-color: rgb(from blue calc(r * .5) g b));
```

It knows `r` is the red color channel in `rgb()`, so the symbols for the color components are mapped to the correct type when you do some calculation on them.

Author: You're exactly right! I had it wrong as I pointed in the content PR.
